                                 ENCHANTER
                                 (Infocom)

Welcome  to  the wonderful world of Enchanter! Before we start, a few words
about the game: first, it helps to make a map as you go along. You will not
be  visiting all the locations, and if you make a misstep somewhere, having
a  map  will  save  you a lot of time and trouble. Second, you will need to
have  food and water with you most of the time. Make sure you eat and drink
when  the  program warns you that you are hungry and thirsty. Also, keep in
mind that, if your water supply runs out, you can always get more, but once
the  bread is gone, you won't be able to obtain more food. So, don't go too
far  astray,  or  you  might starve to death! Finally, remember to save the
game every once in a while, especially before doing anything dangerous!

Ok,  the game begins with your being summoned by Belboz to a council of the
Circle  of  Enchanters.  You  are told that you must put an end to Krill, a
nasty  and  powerful  Wizard, after which, with your trusty spell book, you
are  sent  into  the  game proper, where you find yourself at a fork in the
road.  From  there,  go NE, then North, and you will be in a shack. Get the
jug  and  the  lantern, then open the oven door and get the bread. You have
food, now you need some water.

Go  South from the shack, then NE, SE, NE to the Shady Brook. Here you fill
your  jug  with  water.  Head  SW, SE to another fork in the road, and from
there  SW,  SW  to  a  deserted village. Well, almost deserted. There's one
place that seems to be inhabited. You head South, and run into an old crone
who  hands you a spell scroll, and pushes you back out the door again. This
scroll  has  the  REZROV  spell. Use the GNUSTO spell to write it into your
spell  book,  then  learn  the spell. Now, go NE, NE and you're back at the
fork.  From  there,  head  along  East  until you come to the outer gate of
Krill's castle. REZROV the gate, then continue East to the inside gate.

Learn  the  FROTZ,  NITFOL,  and  REZROV spells. FROTZ the lantern, then go
North  twice  to  the tower, and then Up the tower steps to the Jewel Room.
There is an egg here, with all manner of little switches and doodads on it.
You  could  actually  open the egg by figuring out the proper sequence, but
that  isn't  necessary.  REZROV  the  egg,  and  it  will open, to reveal a
shredded  scroll.  There  is no way to avoid this, even if you opened it by
hand.  Don't  worry  about that, however. Just get the scroll, and drop the
egg.  Learn REZROV once more (very handy, that spell!), then go Down to the
Tower,  and  from there due East through the four Mirror Rooms to the North
Gate. REZROV the gate.

Now  move  out  North  through the gate to the Woods. Here you find another
spell  scroll.  This  is  the  KREBF  spell, which will repair the shredded
scroll.  You  will  only  need this spell once, so you don't really have to
GNUSTO  it. In any case, cast the KREBF spell on the shredded scroll, which
will  be  restored  and  usable. The spell on this scroll is ZIFMIA. GNUSTO
that  one, then walk East to the Swamp. NITFOL the frogs, who will tell you
how to get the CLEESH spell. GNUSTO that one, too.

Now,  return  to  the  North  Gate, and from there go back West through the
Mirror  Rooms to the Tower, and then from there due South until you come to
the Southwest Tower. Go East to the South Hall, then South to dungeon. Open
the  cell  door  and enter the cell. Examine the walls. Aha! A loose block!
Move the block, and you will be able to move East into a secret room. There
is another spell scroll here, the EXEX spell. Get the scroll and GNUSTO the
spell.  You  will  also  find  a  silver  spoon here, but that item is just
"window  dressing";  it has no useful purpose in the game, you should leave
it behind. Now go back West, then South and Up to the South Hall again.

Drop  everything  you  have, and go East into the Gallery. In the dark, you
will  see that one portrait is lit up. Move that, and you will find a black
candle  and  a  black  scroll.  The scroll holds the OZMOO spell. Get these
items and return West. Pick up your supplies (you won't need the lantern if
you  take  the  candle),  then  GNUSTO  the  OZMOO spell. About now, you're
probably  feeling  a  bit  tired.  Go West to the Tower, and Up the stairs.
Well,  look  at  that!  A  comfy  featherbed. Get into bed and drift off to
sleep.

While  you  sleep,  you  have  a  dream.  The dream is an indication of the
location  of  another  scroll. When morning comes, get up, then examine the
bedpost.  Aha!  A  hidden switch! Press it, and a compartment will open up,
revealing  the  VAXUM  spell. Get that scroll and GNUSTO the spell. It will
soon  be time for you to get yourself killed (among other things), so learn
the OZMOO, NITFOL, and EXEX spells.

Go  down  the  stairs,  the  head East until you come to the South Gate. Go
South  from  there to the meadow, then SE to the Shore. Here you will see a
giant turtle with a rainbow-coloured shell. Cast NITFOL on the turtle, then
tell  him to follow you. Return to the South Gate and go East from there to
the  base  of the Southeast Tower. Go up the stairs, and you will be in the
Engine  Room,  which is full of all sorts of dangerous and incomprehensible
machinery.  Cast  EXEX  spell on the turtle, then tell him to go SE and get
the scroll.

The speed spell will make him fast enough to dodge safely through that room
into  the  Control Room, where the Kulcad spell scroll is. On his way back,
he'll  set  off  a trap, but his heavy shell will protect him. You couldn't
have  managed it, because you have no protection from the sharp spears. The
turtle will give you the scroll, then return to the beach. The Kulcad spell
is  too  powerful  for you to GNUSTO, so you'll have to just hold on to the
scroll until you need it. And now, it's time for you to die.

Go  down the stairs, then West to the Hall and North to the Closet. Pick up
the  Jewelled  Box and continue North to the Courtyard. Don't bother trying
REZROV  on  the Box; even that spell isn't powerful enough to open it. Just
go  East to the front of the temple, drop everything you have, then go East
once  more.  You  will be captured and put in a cell to await a sacrificial
ceremony, at which you will be the guest of honour!

Now,  OZMOO  yourself,  and Wait. The creatures will soon come for you, and
you  will  be  offered  up on an altar and a knife plunged into your heart.
Because of the OZMOO spell, you won't really be dead. However, you now have
the  means  of  opening  the Jewelled Box. Once you are on your feet again,
step  down from the altar, amd go East back to the courtyard. Cut the rope,
then  open  the  box  and  get  the MELBOR scroll. Pick up the rest of your
possessions, and GNUSTO the MELBOR spell.

Now,  learn  MELBOR,  VAXUM  and ZIFMIA, then head West, West to the Inside
Gate,  and from there to the Mirror Rooms. Here you must wait until you see
the  Adventurer  on  the  other  side  of the mirror. At that point, ZIFMIA
Adventurer,  and  he  will appear before you, a little bit upset. Since you
have  a move to spare here, MELBOR yourself, then VAXUM the Adventurer, who
will  now  be  very  friendly  towards you. He will also be looking at your
inventory with covetous eyes.

As  soon  as  he's  been  VAXUM'd, head directly East until you come to the
Guarded  Room.  Don't worry, your new friend will follow you along. Once at
the  door (and you should carefully read the description of it; it's really
amusing),  tell the Adventurer to open it. He will do so, and the illusions
of  monsters  will  disappear, revealing only a plain wooden door. Go North
through the door into the Map Room.

Here is one of those variable things in the game. There are several objects
in  this  room,  two  of which, the map and the pencil, are crucial to your
success. Sometimes, the Adventurer will pick up one or both of these items.
You must get them back from him before he leaves, or you may never catch up
to  him  again,  in which case the game is lost. If the Adventurer picks up
something  you  need, tell him to give it to you, and he will. In any case,
you  should drop the dagger now because you don't need it anymore. You also
won't  need the purple scroll with the FILFRE spell. Make sure you have the
map and the pencil, then go back to the North Gate, and from there South to
the Library.

Examine  the  ashes  on the floor, then the tracks in the ashes. These will
lead  you  to  a mousehole in the wall. Reach inside, and you will find the
scroll  with  the  GONDAR spell. GNUSTO that one. While you're poking about
here,  you  might hear gutteral voices coming towards you. Don't worry; the
MELBOR  spell  will keep you protected from any of the hairy creatures that
might enter the room.

There is also a dusty old book here that you might want to read, as it will
help  you to understand what you're doing next. From the Library, return to
the  South  Hall,  then go down into the dungeon, and down once more to the
first Translucent Room. You will probably be tired now, so just go to sleep
right  where  you  are; nothing will hurt you. You only had to sleep in the
bed to have the dream to find the VAXUM spell.

When you wake up, eat and drink if necessary, then drop your spell book and
the  jug.  Look at the map, and you will see some lettered points connected
by lines. This is a magic map of the area where you are now. If you connect
two  adjacent  points  with  the  pencil,  an  opening will actually appear
between  those two rooms. Likewise, if you erase a line between two points,
then you close off the opening between the two rooms. However, you can only
use  the  eraser twice and the point twice before each becomes useless. Now
that you know what you have, let's put it to some good use.

You  are  standing  at the moment at point 'B' on the map. From there, move
South, East, NE, SE, and you will be at point 'F'. The point all by itself,
'P' is where the Unseen Terror currently resides, and you are about to free
it.  Draw  a  line  from 'P' to 'F'. You will see the opening appear in the
wall  before  your  eyes, and then a very scared Belboz will appear briefly
with  a warning. Now, move SW twice (the first time you won't get anywhere)
and you will be at point 'P', where the GUNCHO spell is.

Now,  erase  the  line  from  'B'  to  'R', which will keep the Terror from
escaping. Also erase the line from 'M' to 'V', which traps him in the rooms
again.  Pick  up  the GUNCHO scroll, and make your way to point 'J'. Draw a
line  from 'J' to 'B', then walk West to 'B' and get your spell book. Learn
the CLEESH, GONDAR, and MELBOR spells. The GUNCHO spell is too strong to be
written in your book, so you'll have to carry the scroll with you.

Now,  go  Up  twice to the South Hall. MELBOR yourself, then go West to the
South  Gate,  and from there due North to the Junction. At that point, head
East  twice  to  the  Winding Stairs. This is another powerful illusion; no
matter  how  much  you walk up or down, you will never get anywhere. KULCAD
the  stairs,  and  they  will disappear, leaving you over a Bottomless Pit!
Fortunately, the bannister turned into a vellum scroll containing the IZYUK
spell. IZYUK yoursel, and fly East into (ta-da!) The Warlock's Tower!

Here,  at  last,  you come face-to-face with Krill himself. However, before
you  can  take  care  of  him,  you will have to get rid of a couple of his
friends.  When  the  dragon  attacks, GONDAR the dragon, and when the being
attacks,  CLEESH him. Now, you're ready for the main event. As Krill begins
his chant, GUNCHO him. He is banished forever from this plane of existence,
and you have become a member of the Circle Of Enchanters!!

Of  course,  this is just the beginning; there will be other tasks awaiting
you in the future......

   ********************************************************************
